# dnb-blueprints

The fundamental truth of mastery and creation:

“If you can analyze something — break it down into its core components and understand how its elements fit together to make it what it is — then you can create it yourself.”

### Analysis 

What I am doing here is subjetively analysing drum and bass tracks and noting in text what is happening in segments of 8 Bars (or less). The purpose here is to create a database of music concepts broken down to their core idea level.

Additionally I am looking to find a way to synthesize new concepts by experimentally combining different segments from different works. By taking two separate concepts and linking them (or combining, interchanging, crossing) I attempt to force the music production process to be guided in a different way. Instead of producing a song from start to finish organically, the process is guided by a blueprint which lays out how the song has to progress, what elements it has to have and etc. The producer then is tasked to create a music piece based on the blueprint that outlines the conceptual framework (described in text). I am hoping that this method of music production will remove unecessary doubts of -what to do- or -where to take this/how to progress- and push the thought process into -how to fulfill this requirement- leading to a boost in creativity and the generation of new original concepts.

### Generation

I will be synthesizing new original blueprints using the pool of analysed blueprints of other works. The aim here is to log what works and what does not and also to find blueprints, that can generate sucessfull tracks, or better - find a potent blueprint that can generate a 'family' of tracks, that can act as a core starting point for a certain direction of music and lead to the creation of a 'artistic signature'.

### Experimentation

Another purpose is to open up possibilities of idea generation guided by chance. By having a large pool of analysed tracks the data can be manipulated to generate unique outputs. For example generating a random number, then using it to pick a reference blueprint for the core idea for the intro, then generating another random number and using that number locating e.g. pool track 32 and taking the buildup idea from that music work and so on until the whole song concept is generated by chance.

Analysing only high quality acclaimed music works for the pool of blueprints will ensure, that any segment taken is based on an idea that has been proven and 'works' in practice. This does not ensure that the end result will 'work' since it relies on the actual skill level of the producer who has to follow the direction of the new blueprint to create a piece of music and also it might become apparent that some ideas just don't work well blended together or criss-crossed into each other and etc.

-- John Hawkcage